<h2><b>Node.js Interview questions & Answer</b></h2>

Click ⭐if you like the project and follow @anupayam for technical updates.

1. <h4>What is Node.js</h4>
		<p>Nodejs is an open-source javascript runtime environment for developing server-side and networking applications. This server-side platform is built on google chrome's v8 javascript engine for executing js code outside of browser. In sort I can say node.js is a combination of javascript runtime environment and js libraries</p>

2. <h4>Features of Node.js</h4>
	<p>it supports event-driven, asynchronous(non-blocking) I/O operation. As we know javascript is a synchronous single threaded scripting language but with help of rich libraries of various javascript modules , nodejs simplifies it's development.</br>
	 <b>Asynchronous I/O operations:</b> All APIs of nodejs library are asynchronous in nature . i.e it never waits for an API to return data. The server moves to the next api after calling it and a notification mechanism of events of nodejs helps the server to get a 		 response from api calls</b><br>
	<b>Event-driven: </b>Node.js built on event-driven architecture, which is fundamental of it's asynchronous and i/o model.In browser we have so many interactions of user through evnets like mouse click, keyboard button press, mouse movement and so on. The js in browser handles it through web API but in nodejs it offers us an event module to handle our events.</p>

3. <h4>Where to use Node.js</h4>
	<p>
		<b>I/o bound Applications : </b> It waits most of the time for network, filesystem and databases (mostly comfortable with NOSQL).</br>
		<b>Data streaming Applications: </b> Data streaming is the process of sending data records continously rather than in batches. Generally it is useful for the type of data source that send data in small sizes in a continous flow as the data is generated. it may include a wide variety of data sources such as <i>telemetry from connected devices, Logfiles generated by coustomers using your web application, Ecommerce transactions</i>. The multi user requirement is taken care of the event loop through web socket protocol which runs on TCP, avoiding the overheadof HTTP for web development.</br>
		<b>Json Based Apllications: </b> for SPA(single page application) like Angular, React</br>
		* For CPU intensive application it is not advisable to use Node.js.
	</p>

4. How to create server in Node.js ?
   <p>
		 A node.js application consist of the following three important components:- </br>
		  <b>a.</b> Import required modules  </br>
		  <b>b.</b> Create Server  </br>
		  <b>c.</b> Read request and return response  
 
			  	import http from 'http'; //ES6 module 
			
			const server = http.createServer((req,res)=>{  
			    res.statusCode = 200,  
			    res.setHeader('Content-type', 'application/json');  
			    res.end(JSON.stringify({  
			        data: 'Hello Node.js Developer'  
			    }));  
			});  
			const port = 3000; 
			const hostname = '127.0.0.1';  
			server.listen(port, hostname, () =>{  
			    console.log(`a server is running on ${hostname}:${port}`); 
			});
   	Note :  to use import method update "type": "module" in your package.json file
	 </p>

5. Differerence between commonModule and ES6Module
	<p>
		<b>Common Module: </b> By default, Nodejs is using common module format.
		this module load using require() and variables & functionsexport export from it with module.exports.</br>
										// file name add.js
				module.exports.add = function(a, b) {
				        return a + b;
				} 
				
				// use in another file 
				
				const add = require('./add')
				
				console.log(add(5, 5)) // 10
			

	<b>ES6 Module: </b> To use ES6 module either we can replace file extension with .mjs or update 'type':'module' in package.json file.
this module load using import statement and export using export statement. </br>
  <i>This module was introduced in Node.js v8.5.0</i> </br>
	
			// use in another file add.js
				export function add(a, b){
				    return a + b;
				}
				
				// use in another file app.js
				
				import add from './add'
				console.log(add(5, 5)) // 10
	</p>








